ELITE: An Intelligent Digital Twin-Based
Hierarchical Routing Scheme for Softwarized
Vehicular Networks
Liang Zhao
, Member, IEEE, Zhenguo Bi
, Ammar Hawbani
, Keping Yu
, Member, IEEE,
Yan Zhang, Fellow, IEEE, and Mohsen Guizani
, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Software-Deﬁned Vehicular Network (SDVN) is a networking architecture that can provide centralized control for vehicular
networks. However, the design for routing policies in SDVNs is generally inﬂuenced by several limitations, such as frequent topological
changes, complex service requests, and long model training time. Intelligent Digital Twin-based Software-Deﬁned Vehicular Networks
(IDT-SDVN) can overcome these weaknesses and maximize the advantages of the conventional SDVN architecture by enabling the
controller to construct virtual network spaces and provide virtual instances of corresponding physical objects within the Digital Twin (DT).
In this paper, we propose a junction-based hierarchical routing scheme in IDT-SDVN, namely, intelligent digital twin hierarchical (ELITE)
routing. The proposed scheme is conducted in four phases: policy training and generation in the virtual network, and deployment and
relay selection in physical networks. First, the policy learning phase employs several parallel agents in DT networks and derives multiple
single-target policies. Second, the generation phase combines the learned policies and generates new policies based on complex
communication requirements. Third, the deployment phase selects the most suitable generated policy according to the real-time network
status and message types. A road path is calculated by the controller based on the selected policy and then sent to the requester vehicle.
Finally, the relay selection phase is utilized to determine relay vehicles in a hop-by-hop process along the selected path. Simulation
results demonstrate that ELITE achieves substantial improvements in terms of packet delivery ratio, end-to-end delay, and
communication overhead compared with its counterparts.
Index Terms—Fuzzy logic, hierarchical routing, intelligent digital twin networks, reinforcement learning, software-deﬁned vehicular networks
Ç
1
INTRODUCTION
W
IRELESS connectivity empowers vehicles participating
in data exchange and promotes the establishment of
Vehicular Networks (VNs) in vehicular environments [1].
In VNs, vehicles are enabled to perceive the environment
outside the visible range via vehicle-to-vehicle communica-
tion, which can improve driving safely, enhance trafﬁc
efﬁciency, provide information services, and support auton-
omous driving [2], [3]. In general, all these applications
depend on stable and efﬁcient information sharing among
vehicles. Nevertheless, limited by the transmission capacity
of vehicles, successful data transmission requires relay
vehicles to forward packets to the destination vehicle in a
hop-by-hop process. Since the link quality between adjacent
vehicles substantially inﬂuences communication perfor-
mance, designing the right next-hop vehicle selection
scheme is vital to improve the overall network quality of
multi-hop networking, in terms of delivery ratio, latency,
and load balancing [4], [5], [6].
Among all characteristics of modern
transportation,
dynamic vehicle movement and uneven distribution are the
main reasons for intermittent connectivity, thus becoming the
key challenges for relay selection in multi-hop networking.
Software-Deﬁned Vehicular Network (SDVN) is a network-
ing paradigm to overcome these weaknesses by enabling the
global information available [7], [8]. The central controller of
SDVN has the ability to calculate the optimal routes from
sources to destinations online based on spatiotemporal infor-
mation, thereby microscopically ensuring reliable links and
macroscopically avoiding local optima and data conges-
tion [9], [10]. However, in large-scale VNs, calculating routing
paths entirely in the controller may occupy massive up-down
link bandwidth and computational resources. Moreover, the

Liang Zhao and Zhenguo Bi are with the School of Computer Science, She-
nyang Aerospace University, Shenyang 110136, China.
E-mail: lzhao@sau.edu.cn, tfxp294@163.com.

Ammar Hawbani is with the University of Science and Technology of
China, Hefei, Anhui 230052, China. E-mail: anmande@ustc.edu.cn.

Keping Yu is with the Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Hosei
University, Chiyoda, Tokyo 184-8584, Japan, and also with the RIKEN
Center for Advanced Intelligence Project, RIKEN, Chuo, Tokyo 103-0027,
Japan. E-mail: keping.yu@ieee.org.

Yan Zhang is with the University of Oslo, 0315 Oslo, Norway.
E-mail: yanzhang@iﬁ.uio.no.

Mohsen Guizani is with Machine Learning Department, Mohamed Bin
Zayed University of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (MBZUAI), Abu Dhabi 51133,
UAE. E-mail: mguizani@ieee.org.
Manuscript received 12 Nov. 2021; revised 26 Apr. 2022; accepted 24 May 2022.
Date of publication 31 May 2022; date of current version 4 Aug. 2023.
This work was supported in part by the funds of Department of Science and
Technology of Liaoning Province, in part by the Science Foundation of Liaon-
ing Province under Grant 2020-MS-237, in part by the Liaoning Provincial
Department of Education Science Foundation under Grant JYT19052, in part
by the Digit Fujian Internet-of-Things Laboratory of Environmental Monitor-
ing Research Fund (Fujian Normal University) under Grant 202001, in part
by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 61872086,
and in part by the Science Foundation of Liaoning Province (Key Projects).
(Corresponding authors: Zhenguo Bi and Ammar Hawbani.)
Digital Object Identiﬁer no. 10.1109/TMC.2022.3179254
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
5231
1536-1233 © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See ht_tps://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


preselected routing paths may contain broken links due to
rapid vehicular mobility.
As vehicle distribution is subject to road topology, the
presence of buildings and obstacles may decrease the signal
intensity, especially in urban settings with numerous road-
side buildings. By taking road topology into consideration,
road-based routing can evaluate road status and reduce the
risk of packets entering a segment with high-scale link dis-
connections [11], [12], [13], [14]. Based on the global knowl-
edge of the road network, the central controller can ﬁnd the
routing path from the perspective of the road or junction
within a limited time period. After that, relay vehicles can
select the next hop along the planned path accordingly. In
road-based hierarchical routing, the routing path is not
deﬁned as a complete path that consists of relay vehicles
from the source to the destination, but rather, as a junction
sequence from the start junction to the target junction.
In recent years, research efforts have focused on routing
scheme designs for both distributed and centralized rout-
ing. Nevertheless, optimizing models online and validating
them before application to adapt to changing trafﬁc scenar-
ios and communication requirements is still challeng-
ing [15]. A promising way to overcome this challenge is by
opening up a speciﬁed space for preliminary model training
and processing. As a potential cure, Digital Twin (DT) [16]
can be utilized to create multi-scale digital mappings to tar-
get entities. Recent trends in the combination of autono-
mous driving and DT have led to a proliferation of studies
that driving assistance [17], [18], [19], vehicular edge com-
puting [20], [21], and trafﬁc management [22], [23]. A typical
application of DT in vehicular networks is proposed in [24],
which introduces a new networking architecture, named
Intelligent Digital Twin-based Software-Deﬁned Vehicular
Networks (IDT-SDVN). It constructs multiple virtual Digital
Twin Networks (DTNs) to provide distinct functions for the
real-world SDVN, such as prediction, model training, and
veriﬁcation. Based on the DTN space, it is promising to
yield reliable schemes to meet the above considerations and
improve the performance of the whole vehicular network.
The main motivations of this paper are summarized as
follows.
(1) Due to a lack of knowledge about future trafﬁc situa-
tions when training a model, conventional pre-trained
model-based routing policies suffer from low adaptability
and insensitivity to the dynamics of network status. IDT-
SDVN can handle the dynamic topology changing of
vehicles better over SDVN and VN due to its virtualization
and prediction abilities.
(2) Existing routing models generally pay attention to
trafﬁc-related
or
topological
factors
(inter-vehicle
dis-
tance [25], relative velocity [26], density [27], etc.). However,
the inﬂuence of these factors on the performance in certain
routing metrics such as packet loss rate and end-to-end
delay is still ambiguous. Thus, directly quantifying and uti-
lizing routing metrics while training models is a more feasi-
ble solution.
(3) There are various types of messages with different
transmission requirements in VNs. For example, collision
avoidance messages are time-constraint, while multimedia
messages are delay-tolerant, which might occupy massive
bandwidth. However, few studies have been investigated in
terms of adaptively deploying routing policies towards
complex message types to provide personalized services.
To mitigate the aforementioned problems, we propose a
junction-based hierarchical routing scheme in IDT-SDVN,
known as intelligent digital twin hierarchical (ELITE) rout-
ing, which involves two aspects in system modeling. First,
we train a group of multidimensional routing tables (poli-
cies) by parallel learning in DTNs and experience fusion.
The table value indicates the tendency of a packet to be for-
warded to each junction for a certain transmission require-
ment. Second, as these policies are generated aiming to
meet diverse communication requirements, the controller
maintains a state-action table that records the best policy
choice for each combination of (network situation, message
type). Once receiving a routing request, the controller deter-
mines which policy is the best choice for this transmission
and deploys it. Data packets are forwarded along the path
calculated based on the deployed policy. All the efforts
made in this paper are focused on providing the most reli-
able multi-hop data transmission by jointly considering var-
ious routing metrics and communication types. The main
contributions of this paper are summarized as follows.
(1) In IDT-SDVN, a new routing scheme, ELITE, is intro-
duced with the advantages of (i) realizing adaptive routing
policy generation for various communication requirements
in VNs, and (ii) intelligently switching policies regarding
the instant network status and message types.
(2) We propose a routing policy generation approach
with parallel learning and experience fusion. In the learning
process, we develop a DTN space and deploy a group of
virtual agents in it to learn multiple single-target policies. In
addition, the fusion process is responsible for combining
these learning results and generating available policies for
various service requirements. This approach allows auto-
matic routing policy generation.
(3) We introduce a policy application mechanism that
includes policy selection and road path planning in the
IDT-SDVN controller, and road-based relay vehicle selec-
tion in distributed vehicular networks. By adopting this
mechanism, the controller can reduce the impact of frequent
topological changes in vehicular networks and decrease the
time consumption in policy switching. Simulation results
show that the proposed mechanism brings great perfor-
mance in packet delivery ratio, average end-to-end delay,
etc.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2,
we discuss the state-of-the-arts and related works. Section 3
introduces a new IDT-SDVN-based routing policy genera-
tion scheme and outlines the system model. In Section 4, we
describe the proposed scheme in detail. Section 5 gives the
simulation scenario and evaluation results. Finally, in Sec-
tion 6, we summarize the proposed scheme and end the
paper by discussing future works.
2
RELATED WORK
In this section, we discuss and summarize the existing rout-
ing schemes in varying scenarios (i.e., distributed and cen-
tralized) as well as using different technologies (i.e., fuzzy
logic and reinforcement learning). Besides, we also intro-
duce some common experience fusion methods.
5232
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


(1) Existing Routing Schemes in Vehicular Ad hoc Network
(VANET). VANET plays an important role in Intelligent
Transportation Systems (ITS). Routing decisions in VANETs
are made by distributed vehicles according to the tempo-
rary information within one hop. On-road vehicles dynami-
cally share/exchange basic information (e.g., position and
velocity) with neighbors through periodic beacons. During
packet propagation, intermediate vehicles select the next
forwarder based on applied schemes without any addi-
tional information. Thus, this type of routing solution
always accompanies potential risks of limited available and
outdated data separately caused by perception ability and
high mobility, thereby leading to link disconnection, data
congestion, and local optimization.
A few contributions have been made in link evalua-
tion [28], vehicular dynamic prediction [29], and bus trajec-
tory utilization [30] to meet various demands of Quality of
Service (QoS) in VANETs. The scheme in [28] aims to iden-
tify routing paths based on ﬁve metrics such as link capacity
and connectivity. It uses the Strength Pareto Evolutionary
Algorithm to optimize these metrics and proposes a path-
ﬁnding algorithm for data routing. A Broadcast scheme
based on the Prediction of Dynamics (BPD) [29] is proposed
which conducts two novel metrics separately targeted to
broadcast delay and dissemination efﬁciency. In [30], the
Bus Trajectory-based Street Centric (BTSC) routing scheme
utilizes buses as the main relay to deliver packets. It consid-
ers both bus trajectory and packet delivery between two
buses to increase the transmission ratio and decrease delay.
(2) Existing Routing Schemes in Software-Deﬁned Vehicular
Networks (SDVNs). Beneﬁted from splitting networking con-
trol from data forwarding services, SDVN controllers are
enabled for global information gathering, network resource
management, and centralized routing decision. Based on
these characteristics, in SDVNs, a lot of efforts have been
made in strategy design for load balancing, low latency con-
trol, security, etc. However, routing of SDVNs always faces
the problems, including computation consumption, fre-
quent bandwidth occupation, and relatively long delay.
The majority of existing schemes in SDVN are based on
centralized link evaluation. In such schemes [25], [31], [32],
global network information are utilized in path scheduling
with the great advantages against classical distributed rout-
ing. The scheme proposed consists of both centralized and
distributed routing methods in SDVN [33]. The authors for-
mulates multi-hop data delivery in uncertain vehicular net-
work conditions as a minimum cost capacitated ﬂow problem
with the constraints of routing, timing, and capacity. By ﬁnd-
ing the optimal solution, a feasible path for forwarding pack-
ets is outputted. In [10], four different strategies are proposed
for different transmission demands on various metrics. The
SDN controller is responsible for global routing scheduling
by evaluating the encounter probability between buses.
(3) Fuzzy Logic-based Routing in VNs. Fuzzy Logic
empowers agents to process uncertain classiﬁcation and
decision-making problems by imitating the human brain. In
VNs, through the concept of fuzzy logic, the vague relation-
ship between trafﬁc features and routing performance on
various metrics can be well explained. Thus, a few routing
schemes have been proposed by adopting fuzzy modeling
and processing, to realize several functions such as hop-by-
hop link evaluation and relay selection in VANETs or
SDVNs.
Vehicular Environment Fuzzy Router (VEFR) [27] uses a
fuzzy logic system to evaluate links from the perspectives
of roads and vehicles. Road segments with high density and
vehicles with similar speeds are selected for packet delivery.
Fuzzy Logic-based Directional Greedy Forwarding (FL-
DGR) [34] ﬁnds a trade-off among various metrics (e.g.,
position, link quality, and throughput) while next-hop node
selection. In [35], Intersection Routing based on Fuzzy
Multi-Factor Decision (IRFMFD) is proposed by integrating
multiple features for geographic routing. It selects static
nodes at intersections and builds multi-hop links between
two static nodes by fuzzy logic based on factors like dis-
tance and relative velocity. However, the frequent usage of
fuzzy inference must lead to excessive computational con-
sumption, thereby decreasing the network efﬁciency.
(4) Reinforcement Learning-based Routing in VNs. In Rein-
forcement Learning (RL)-based routing schemes, the entire
VN is treated as the environment, agents are the on-road
vehicles, SDVN controller, or virtual agents ﬂowing among
vehicles. Reward/experience accumulation originates from
real data routing or network awareness. One of the greatest
advantages of RL-based routing is that agents have no need
to achieve prior knowledge of the environment. Existing
studies demonstrate that RL-based routing well adapts to
high dynamic VNs because of its ability to react to transient
changes in network situations.
QGrid [36], designed as a RL-based hierarchical routing
scheme, is proposed by considering grid connectivity and
vehicular movement. It divides the whole map into many
small grids and uses Q-learning to ﬁnd the transmission
propriety between every two adjacent grids through period-
ical exploration of the environment. During routing, packets
are delivered hop-by-hop along the grid sequence calcu-
lated by the learned Q-table. In [14], rewards and discount
factors are determined according to routing situation and
historical trafﬁc ﬂow. The authors propose a RL-based
multi-hop route evaluation method [37]. As the vehicles
exchanging hello messages, a table is learned as recording
values for selecting next-hop vehicles for Road-Side Units
(RSUs). However, the convergence of RL algorithms relies
on extensive exploration of the environment, online training
must lead to substantial bandwidth occupation and even
failure routes.
(5) Experience Fusion Methods. Data fusion has been
widely used in the ﬁelds of target recognition and detection.
Based on certain rules, fusion mechanisms can analyze and
integrate data from multiple different sensors or agents,
and further provide more reasonable evaluation and deci-
sion. Fused data can reﬂect the information from each data
source, as well as the information that cannot be provided
by a single source. Common data fusion methods include
voting, Kalman ﬁlter, Bayesian method, and fuzzy logic.
Many studies tend to implement multi-sensor data fusion
to improve data reliability and integrity in wireless sensor
networks. In [38], the optimal fusion rule selection problem
of distributed decision fusion in wireless sensor networks is
discussed. It uses the likelihood ratio test under the Ney-
man-Pearson sense to derive the optimal fusion rule and
applies the fusion process to produce the global decision.
ZHAO ET AL.: ELITE: AN INTELLIGENT DIGITAL TWIN-BASED HIERARCHICAL ROUTING SCHEME FOR SOFTWARIZED VEHICULAR...
5233
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


Efforts in [39] aim to develop a real-time road condition sys-
tem that strictly relies on comprehensive and accurate data. It
designs a three-layer Back Propagation structure for the
fusion of ﬂoating car data and ﬁxed detector data to improve
the accuracy of trafﬁc speed estimation. A ﬁne-grained trafﬁc
ﬂow prediction method [40] is proposed to forecast the ﬂow
of different types of vehicles. By fusing multi-source trafﬁc
data, such as vehicle detector data, remote microwave sensors
data, and toll collection data, vehicle types are well identiﬁed.
Compared with other fusion methods, through fuzzy
fusion, data with uncertain concepts or vague descriptions
from different sources can be properly combined into single-
valued evaluation indicators. In RL-based vehicular net-
works, considering the differences in learning rates among
agents, experience accumulation is incomplete and time-
varying. Therefore, it is promising to apply the fuzzy system
to multi-agent experience fusion as the relationship among
learned policies can be well expressed and distinguished.
(6) Summary. Through the previous studies, we conclude
that (i) the global view and computational power of SDVN
can provide additional functions that distributed systems
are not capable of, and also facilitate the realization of DT in
VNs. (ii) DTNs provide platforms for verifying functions
that are risky or hard to execute in physical worlds. Some
key challenges of existing schemes, that is, membership
function settings in FLR and sparse reward in RLR, have
the potential to be optimized through IDT-SDVN with low
cost. Beneﬁted from the characteristics such as parallel with
physical networks and strong spatiotemporal scalability,
IDT-SDVN can provide multiple virtual twin networks that
cover past, present, and future, thereby realizing intelligent
routing optimization in VNs.
3
SYSTEM OVERVIEW
In this paper, considering the real-time demand of making
routing decisions and the difference in the transmission
requirement of various types of messages in vehicular net-
works, by utilizing the advantages of the DT concept, we
propose ELITE with the target to realize stable and efﬁcient
inter-vehicle communication in the IDT-SDVN. Before
detailed introducing ELITE, in this section, we describe the
basic preliminaries in three parts. First, we discuss the road-
based hierarchical routing structure. Our proposed ELITE is
implemented under this structure and mainly targets the
ﬁrst level, that is, road path planning for packet transmis-
sion. Then, a comprehensive outline of ELITE is given.
Finally, we show the routing table mentioned in ELITE.
3.1
Routing Structure
In this paper, we adopt a road-based hierarchical routing
structure for IDT-SDVN. Compared with other centralized
and location-based structures, it has advantages including,
(1) decreasing computation time and resource consumption,
and (2) reducing the impact of roadside buildings on signal
strength. Moreover, by utilizing DT, SDVN is empowered
with various functions, including online routing policy
learning, testing, veriﬁcation, and optimization.
As presented in the left of Fig. 1, the hierarchical routing
structure of IDT-SDVN is expressed in ﬁve steps. First, the
source node sends request messages to the IDT-SDVN con-
troller before packet transmission. Second, a routing path is
calculated by the IDT-SDVN controller and sent to the
requester. Note that the path here denotes a junction
sequence. Then, packets are forwarded along the path hop-
by-hop based on the relay node selection strategy which
will be described later. Finally, the packet receiver reports
the essential routing information, such as round delay and
hop count, to the controller for further policy optimization.
The right of Fig. 1 illustrates how IDT-SDVN operates to
optimize routing in the physical world. As shown, the
SDVN controller develops a virtual presentation of the
physical space based on the digital map and collected trafﬁc
data. The DT side runs in parallel with the physical vehicu-
lar network. IDT-SDVN provides multiple services for VNs
as described at the top of Fig. 1, including (1) policy veriﬁca-
tion or new policy learning; (2) multi-DT collaborative opti-
mization; (3) generating a reliable routing decision model or
path scheduling strategy.
3.2
Routing Scheme Outline
Under the hierarchical routing structure, determining road
paths with efﬁcient and stable packet transmission ability is
a crucial point. In this paper, we focus on the policy design-
ing of road paths planning (also known as intermediate
junctions selection) and propose a road-level routing policy
generation and application scheme, ELITE. As shown in
Fig. 2, our proposed ELITE consists of three processes, Sin-
gle-target Policy Learning (SPL), Experience Fusion and
new policy Generation (EFG), and Application in Physical
Networks (APN).
In SPL, we set up multiple DTNs by duplicating the
physical vehicular network, and correspondingly deploy
virtual agents to them. Each agent acts as the data center of
a DTN and imitates real inter-vehicle communication
together with it. All DTN-agent pairs operate in parallel to
learn policies that can maximize the performance for one
Fig. 1. The structure of hierarchical routing in IDT-SDVN.
5234
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


metric (e.g., delivery ratio, end-to-end delay, and hop
counts).
EFG provides a fusion mechanism which includes two
parts: weight-based fusion and fuzzy logic-based fusion.
The inputs are single-target policies obtained in SPL, while
the outputs are new policies that satisfy various service
requirements (e.g., high reachability-ﬁrst and low delay-
ﬁrst). In this case, EFG can infer more policies by providing
more fusion rules, ensuring comprehensive and ﬂexible
routing support.
In APN, we design an adaptive routing policy deploy-
ment mechanism by employing the Q-learning algorithm.
The controller learns from real vehicular communication
and maintains a state-action table that records the priority
of the generated policies under various network load situa-
tions and message types. Besides, a road-based relay vehicle
selection strategy is proposed. Adopting this scheme is ben-
eﬁcial because it can intelligently select and apply the opti-
mal policy in response to the instantaneous information
from physical networks.
3.3
Routing Table
As illustrated above, in this paper, the proposed routing
scheme is policy-based, and policies are presented in the
form of a routing table set that contains n routing tables T ¼
fT 1; T 2; . . . ; T ng. A routing table, that is, a policy in this
paper, is organized as a three-dimensional matrix T x ¼
fT1; T2; . . . ; Tmg, where m is the number of junctions in the
physical network. Ti is formulated in Eq. (1), where each
entry Ti : tj;k indicates the priority of the current junction Ji
forwarding packets to its adjacent junction Jk, with the tar-
get junction being Jj. q is the number of adjacent junctions
of Ji
Ti ¼
t1;1
  
t1;q
..
.
..
.
..
.
tm;1
  
tm;q
2
64
3
75
(1)
There are three types of table sets, all of which are orga-
nized as T. More details are as follows.
(1) Q ¼ fQPRR; QAD; QHC; QRCg denotes the single-target
policy set learned by n parallel agents in DTNs. An entry
Qxði; j; kÞ corresponds to T x : Ti : tj;k.
(2) Qnorm ¼ fQnorm
PRR ; Qnorm
AD ; Qnorm
HC ; Qnorm
RC g denotes the nor-
malized policy set which originates from Q. Qnorm
x
ði; j; kÞ
corresponds to T x : Ti : tj;k.
(3) G ¼ fGbas; GHRF; GLDF; GLBFg denotes the policy set
that will be deployed to physical networks. Gxði; j; kÞ corre-
sponds to T x : Ti : tj;k.
A detailed description of all notations used in this paper
is presented in Table 1.
4
PROPOSED ELITE ROUTING SCHEME IN
IDT-SDVN
ELITE is proposed by the following three processes. First,
we employ the Parallel Reinforcement Learning method in
DTNs to learn multiple single-target routing policies. Then,
two fusion techniques are introduced to combine those
learning results and further derive new policies toward
diverse message types. Finally, we apply the DTN-gener-
ated policies in the physical side of IDT-SDVN.
4.1
Single-Target Policy Learning
This section mainly discusses the PRL-based single-target
policy learning approach. In the following subsections, we
Fig. 2. The proposed ELITE routing scheme in IDT-SDVN. (a) The single-target policy learning process in DTNs. (b) The experience fusion mecha-
nism which includes two ways: wight-based fusion and fuzzy logic-based fusion. Multiple available policies, presented as a routing table set, is gener-
ated after steps (a) and (b). (c) The policy application mechanism that aims to deploy the optimal one among all generated policies to the physical
side of IDT-SDVN.
TABLE 1
Notations
Notation
Description
J
J ¼ fJ1; . . . ; Jmg.
Ji is a junction in the map, with the identiﬁcation i.
Ni is the set of J’s adjacent junctions, q ¼ lenðNiÞ.
T
Q, Qnorm, and G are all organized in the form of T,
Q is the single-target policy set learned by DTNs,
Qnorm is the normalized single-target policy set,
G contains policies that will be deployed.
Rði; j; kÞ
One-step reward from Ji to Jj via Jk 2 Ni.
Li;j
A junction sequence between Ji and Jj.
Generally obtained by querying policies in Q or G.
ui;j
A vector in Qx that bound by Ji and Jj.
ui;j ¼ ðQxði; j; pÞÞ; 8Jp 2 Ni.
vi;j;k
A vector that contains all values in Q with the same
constraint Ji  Jj  Jk.
vi;j;k ¼ ðQnorm
l
ði; j; kÞÞ; 8Qnorm
l
2 Qnorm
Vi
A vehicle with the identiﬁcation number i.
ZHAO ET AL.: ELITE: AN INTELLIGENT DIGITAL TWIN-BASED HIERARCHICAL ROUTING SCHEME FOR SOFTWARIZED VEHICULAR...
5235
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


ﬁrst introduce the parallel learning objectives and then illus-
trate the SPL approach and its implementation in agent-
DTN pairs in detail.
4.1.1
Routing Metric
In the DTN space, each virtual agent is assigned a speciﬁed
learning objective, namely obtaining the optimal perfor-
mance of one essential routing metric for vehicular commu-
nication by interacting with its corresponding DTN. The
following metrics are taken into consideration:
(1) Packet Delivery Ratio (PDR). This metric is deﬁned as
the ratio of the number of successfully received packets to
the total number of generated packets in a certain period.
(2) Average Delay (AD). It represents the average interval
between data generation and reception, including the time
caused by inter-vehicle transmission and packet-carrying at
relay vehicles.
(3) Hop Count (HC). It is considered a basic measurement
of the distance in vehicular networks, obtained by accumu-
lating the number of hops during successful packet delivery.
(4) Routing Cost (RC). This metric is expressed as the
number of control messages (e.g., beacon messages, and dis-
covery and report messages) required between the genera-
tion and reception of a packet.
4.1.2
Parallel Learning in Digital Twin Networks
Here, we introduce three aspects of the SPL approach. Paral-
lel learning structure demonstrates how to develop a learning
space in the IDT-SDVN controller. Virtual vehicular commu-
nication describes the way of realizing routing decisions in
DTNs. Experience accumulation provides the policy mainte-
nance and update approach.
(1) Parallel learning structure. The ﬁrst thing to be noted in
parallel learning is DT, which is responsible for providing
an internal virtual representation of the physical vehicular
network in the IDT-SDVN controller. In practice, we assume
that the central controller can set up a group of DTNs that (i)
entirely emulate real road network topology, including
junctions, roadside buildings, weather and so forth; and (ii)
contain trafﬁc ﬂow information within a certain future
period obtained by accurate prediction algorithms.
Based on the developed DTN space, we deploy a group
of virtual agents on it to construct the parallel learning
structure (as shown in Fig. 3), a DTN provides a virtual
vehicular communication environment and an agent works
as the data center on it. There are four pairs of DTN-agents
developed in this paper, labeled PDR, AD, HC, and RC.
All DTN-agent pairs work in parallel. Each DTN-agent pair
targets a certain performance objective, that is, pursuing the
best performance of a single metric by imitating virtual data
transmission and centralized routing decisions. Agents
keep accumulating routing experience and record them in
the form of a policy. The policy learning process can be
treated as a parallel implementation of the Q-learning algo-
rithm in digital networks.
We take junctions and connected roads as states and
actions of Q-learning, respectively. Because two adjacent
junctions are connected by at least one road, in this paper,
actions can also be explained as the adjacent junctions of the
current junction. In this case, the Q-table maintained by
virtual agents is deﬁned as a three-dimensional matrix
whose set is denoted by Q ¼ fQPDR; QAD; QHC; QRCg.
(2) Virtual vehicular communication. As shown in Fig. 3,
once virtual agent VA_x receives a request message from
its corresponding DT network DTN_x, it ﬁrst executes the
junction selection algorithm, which consists of two steps:
(i) a Case Selection procedure that determines the junc-
tion selection mode, and (ii) a Path Calculation procedure
that
selects
intermediate
junctions
according
to
the
assigned mode. The junction selection algorithm in paral-
lel learners takes as inputs the source junction Js and the
destination junction Jd, as illustrated in Algorithm 1. It
starts at Js and aims to construct a road path from Js to
Jd. There are three cases mentioned while selecting the
next junction:
Algorithm 1. Junction Selection in Parallel Learners
Input: Source junction Js and destination junction Jd
Output: Junction list Lsd
1: Set c  1 # the current junction
2: Set Lsd  ½  # a list of junctions
3: Randomly select three cases by the probability of 50%, 20%,
and 30%
4: while Jd =2 Lcn do
5:
if Case1 then
6:
# exploitation mode
7:
r  maxQðc; d; nÞ; 8Jn 2 Nc
8:
else if Case2 then
9:
# greedy mode
10:
Get the distance between c and 8Jn 2 Nc
11:
r  the adjacent junction closest to Jd
12:
else
13:
# exploration mode
14:
r  a random neighbor of c
15:
end if
16:
c  r
17:
Add c into Lsd
18: end while
19: return Lsd
Case 1, Exploitation mode. In this mode, the agent queries
its maintained routing table and chooses the next junction Jr
based on the optimal policy, which is described in Lines 5-
7 in Algorithm 1 correspondingly. Jc is the current junction
and Nc indicates the set of its adjacent junctions.
Case 2, Greedy mode. In this mode, the agent calculates the
junction sequence entirely based on location information.
Each junction that appears in the path is the geographically
Fig. 3. The structure of single-target policy learning in parallel IDT-agent
pairs.
5236
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


optimal choice (i.e., closest to the target junction) of its previ-
ous junction, as shown in Lines 8-11 in Algorithm 1.
Case 3, Exploration mode. In this mode, the agent ran-
domly selects intermediate junctions from the source junc-
tion to the target junction,as expressed in Lines 12-14 in
Algorithm 1. Beneﬁted from exploration, the experience of
state-action pairs that are non-optimal will also be accumu-
lated, and ﬁnally utilized in the fusion process.
Once Jd is achieved, the path planning process ends and
returns Lsd, which records the junction sequence from Js to
Jd. After that, the virtual agent sends a response back to the
corresponding DTN. Subsequently, packets are forwarded
hop by hop based on the road-based greedy routing strat-
egy described in Section 4.3.2 (2) toward the destination
vehicle along the received path.
(3) Experience accumulation. The foremost part of this par-
allel learning process is routing table maintenance. As a
road sequence only brings two results: data reception or
loss, the agents are responsible for accumulating successful
experience and, if necessary, weakening the path that leads
to packet loss. Once data transmission is complete in a
DTN, the virtual agent updates its maintained routing table
by
Qðc; d; aÞ þ¼ a½R þ gðmax
h
Qða; d; hÞ  Qðc; d; aÞÞ;
(2)
where c, d, and a represent the current junction, the target
junction, and the next junction, respectively. a is the learn-
ing rate, set to 0.9, and g is the discount factor, set to 0.1.
maxh Qða; d; hÞ denotes the maximal expected reward. For a
certain junction sequence Lsd, the update process is exe-
cuted in reverse, as presented in Algorithm 2. For each pair
of adjacent junctions in Lsd, this algorithm ﬁrst calls the
Reward Model to calculate the immediate reward R and
then updates the corresponding table entry according to
Eq. (2). Finally, it ends at c ¼ Js and returns the updated
table.
The routing table learned in a virtual agent is named a
policy, as it can be used to guide the agent to plan road
paths for data transmission. All virtual agents learn policies
in the same way, but differ when it comes to the reward
because they pursue different routing performance goals.
As follows, we separately explain the settings of reward in
this paper, including RPDR, RAD, RHC, and RRC.
RPDR is expressed as the packet delivery ratio-related
reward. It indicates the immediate feedback after execut-
ing action a in state ðc; dÞ. In this paper, because only paths
that realize successful delivery are reported to the agent
for policy update, we determine the reward as a constant
RPDRðc; d; aÞ ¼ 1 to highlight these paths.
RAD is expressed as the average delay-related reward,
calculated by
RADðc; d; aÞ ¼
1  ADca
ADsd



1  ADsd
mADsd


;
(3)
where ADsd is the delay of packet transmission on path Lsd,
and mADsd is the recorded longest delay. ADca represents
the time spent on road Lca.
RHC is expressed as the hop count-related reward, calcu-
lated by
RHCðc; d; aÞ ¼ exp  HCca  C
lca


;
(4)
where HCca is the hop count on road Lca and lc;a denotes the
road length. C is the vehicle communication radius.
RRC is expressed as the routing cost-related reward, cal-
culated by
RRCðc; d; aÞ ¼
1 þ RCca
CCca
1


;
(5)
where RCca is the number of control messages generated
by relay vehicles on road Lca, and CCca is the number of
control messages generated by all vehicles during packet
transmission.
In the end, the IDT-SDVN controller obtains the policy
set Q ¼ fQPDR; QAD; QHC; QRCg, where QPDR, QAD, QHC,
and QRC derive from the DTN-agent pairs labeled by PDR,
AD, HC, and RC, respectively.
The main reason for implementing RL is to provide
online and adaptive routing policy learning abilities for
DTNs. To make Q adapt to dynamic network topology and
situations, we repeatedly execute the routing path explora-
tion process as discussed in Case 3 and conduct virtual
inter-vehicle communication based on multiple settings,
including varying distances between source vehicles and
destination vehicles. Moreover, considering rewards are set
according to routing results, values in Q are changing after
each episode. However, an appropriate policy set should
highlight the best choice when selecting intermediate roads
in physical networks.
Algorithm 2. Routing Policy Update in Parallel Learners
Input: A junction list Lsucc
Output: An updated routing table
1: d  Lsucc½1
2: for i 2 ½lenðLsuccÞ  1; . . . ; 1 do
3:
c  Lsucc½i  1
4:
a  Lsucc½i
5:
Calculate R by R ¼ 1, Eq. (3), (4), or (5)
6:
Qðc; d; aÞ ¼ Qðc; d; aÞ þ a½R þ gðmaxh Qða; d; hÞ
Qðs; d; aÞÞ
7: end for
8: return Q
4.2
Experience Fusion
In DTNs, virtual agents learn multiple routing policies in
parallel, and each policy aims to realize the perfect perfor-
mance of one routing metric. However, it is quite likely that
the routing path with the best performance in a certain met-
ric may be the one with the worst performance in other met-
rics. This situation may reduce the service quality of the
whole network. In fact, transmitting a certain type of mes-
sage always has more than one metric requirement. For
example, collision avoidance messages broadcasting needs
both a high delivery rate and low delay. Thus, in this sec-
tion, we introduce a policy fusion mechanism to generate
new policies that adhere to various service requirements
and describe two executed fusion techniques in detail. Sepa-
rating policy generation into these two steps, i.e., learning
ZHAO ET AL.: ELITE: AN INTELLIGENT DIGITAL TWIN-BASED HIERARCHICAL ROUTING SCHEME FOR SOFTWARIZED VEHICULAR...
5237
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


and fusion, have the following advantages. (i) It allows free-
dom combinations of the learning results derived from
DTNs, therefore, it is not necessary to develop more DTNs
with the expansion of requirement types. (ii) A single objec-
tive makes the learning process in a DTN easy to execute,
and the fusion process is periodically activated, therefore,
the computation resource occupation is reduced.
For ease of calculation, input single-target policies are
normalized bylines ﬁrst. Then, based on the standard data,
we carry out the fusion mechanism in two ways: weight-
based fusion and fuzzy logic-based fusion. The reason for
utilizing fuzzy logic is that it can solve problems with fuzzy
concepts such as “perform well on PDR” or “perform badly
on PDR”. After fusion, the controller can obtain available
routing policies for deployment. In this paper, we present
four types of generated policies, which will be discussed
later, according to potential communication requirements.
4.2.1
Preprocessing
Normally, values recorded in Q distribute in a large range
due to the difference in learning rate between parallel
agents. To unify the evaluation criteria and easily carry out
fusion mechanisms, all entries in the learned policies should
be normalized into the range (0,1]. Bound by the current
junction Ji and the target junction Jj, the value of Jk (an
adjacent junction of Ji) in the table Qx is normalized by
Qnorm
x
ði; j; kÞ ¼ min 1; log ð1 þ Qxði; j; kÞÞ
log ðmaqxði; jÞÞ


;
(6)
where
maqxði; jÞ ¼ maxvi;j
¼ maxQxði; j; pÞ; 8Jp 2 Ni;
(7)
is the maximum value among all adjacent junctions of Ji. Ni
denotes the set of adjacent junctions of Ji. By implementing
normalization upon Q, we can obtain the normalized policy
set Qnorm ¼ fQnorm
PDR ; Qnorm
AD ; Qnorm
HC ; Qnorm
RC g
4.2.2
Weight-Based Fusion
One type of policy fusion mechanism in this paper is imple-
mented in the form of weight-based fusion, described as an
average of parallel agents’ independently learned policies.
The output is a new policy Gbas in which an entry is calcu-
lated by
Gbasði; j; kÞ ¼ 1
n 
X
Qnorm
x
ði; j; kÞ; 8Qnorm
x
2 Qnorm;
(8)
where Qnorm
x
ði; j; kÞ denotes an entry in the normalized table
Qnorm
x
. Ji, Jj, and Jk represent the current junction, the desti-
nation junction, and an adjacent junction of Ji, respectively.
By traversing all entries in Qnorm, we ﬁnally obtain the ﬁrst
type of generated routing policy, the Basis Policy (BP).
Similarly, fuzzy logic-based fusion, which will be pre-
sented later, also aims to derive heterogeneous routing poli-
cies by integrating the accumulated experience of partial or
all parallel agents. In practice, instead of employing a
weighted average, the fuzzy logic-based fusion mechanism
implements policy generation by designing various fuzzy/
fusion rules.
4.2.3
Fuzzy Logic-Based Fusion
The fuzzy logic-based fusion mechanism is responsible for
generating various routing policies according to potential
communication requirements. It is an implementation of
fuzzy logic in data fusion, including preprocessing, fuzziﬁ-
cation, fuzzy inference, and defuzziﬁcation. In this way,
based on the input normalized policy set, the fuzzy logic-
based fusion mechanism generates new available routing
policies that will be applied later in physical vehicular
networks.
Algorithm 3 elaborates on the process of executing fuzzy
fusion in four steps: (i) determining the processing vector vi;j;k
by querying Qnorm (Line 2); (ii) calculating fuzzy values for
each item in vi;j;k (Lines 4-5); (iii) mapping fuzzy values to
fuzzy output based on the Min-Max fuzzy inference method
and the predeﬁned fuzzy rule table Ft (Line 7); and (iv) con-
verting the fuzzy output to a crisp value (Line 9). After
P m  Ni; 8Ji 2 J cycles, a new policy Gt is obtained. In addi-
tion, more policies can be generated by expanding the rule
base.
Algorithm 3. Fuzzy Logic-Based Policy Fusion
Input: A normalized policy set Qnorm, and a rule table Ft
Output: A new policy Gt
1: for Ji 2 J, Jj 2 J; Jk 2 Ni do
2:
vi;j;k  ðQnorm
l
ði; j; kÞÞ; 8Qnorm
l
2 Qnorm
3:
# fuzziﬁcation
4:
Classify all e 2 vi;j;k based on fuzzy sets
5:
Get the grade of membership for each e 2 vi;j;k
based on Fig. 4a
6:
# fuzzy inference
7:
Reasoning by Ft-based Min-Max Inference
8:
# defuzziﬁcation
9:
Compute Gtði; j; kÞ based on Fig. 4b by CoG
10: end for
11: return Gt
(1) Fuzziﬁcation. This process converts a numerical value
to a fuzzy value based on predeﬁned membership func-
tions. Here, we deﬁne the four inputs as linguistic variables,
R labeled by PRR, D labeled by AD, H labeled by HC, and
S labeled by RC. Each variable has three sets of measure-
ment items: TðRÞ ¼ fPoor; Medium; Goodg, TðDÞ ¼ fShort;
Middle; Longg, TðHÞ ¼ fBad; Medium; Goodg, and TðSÞ ¼
fLow; Medium; Highg. Each item is modeled by a fuzzy set
and map with crisp input values based on membership
functions. The fuzzy membership functions demonstrate to
Fig. 4. (a) Input membership and (b) output membership functions.
5238
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


which degree an input belongs to its corresponding fuzzy
sets.
The method of designing fuzzy input membership func-
tions is shown in Fig. 4a. The triangle membership function
is used since it is easy to model and performs adequately
for the proposed fusion mechanism. In practice, for a proc-
essing vector ui;j;k, we ﬁrst determine the maximum value
mv ¼ maxðvi;j;kÞ. Then, the intersections of membership
curves and the x-axis are separately set to ð0:8mv; 0Þ,
ð0:5mv; 0Þ, and ð0:2mv; 0Þ. Accordingly, the membership
functions can be easily determined.
(2) Rule-based fuzzy inference. After calculating the fuzzy
values of the four inputs, we utilize the predeﬁned IF-
THEN rule table to map these fuzzy values to fuzzy output
which is denoted by the Grade. The Grade represents the
evaluation of roads in terms of packet delivery ability. The
linguistic variable of the Grade is deﬁned as the combina-
tion of fWorst; Bad; Medium; Good; Excellentg, and the cor-
responding membership functions are shown in Fig. 4b.
Most existing rule-based fuzzy inference algorithms
assume an accurate knowledge of fuzzy questions. It allows
setting intuitively optimal rules based on expert experience.
In this paper, considering the potential lack of understand-
ing of the relation between routing metrics and request
types, we introduce a numerical approach while designing
fuzzy rules. A fuzzy rule table in this paper includes 3  3 
3 rules, and each rule consists of three antecedent items and
a consequent item. Each antecedent item is assigned to two
parameters, weight (W) and score (S). W indicates the inﬂu-
ence of an antecedent item on the consequence, P W ¼ 1. S
is determined according to the belonged fuzzy set. In detail,
W is set by experience, and the three fuzzy sets level 1,
level 2, and level 3 (shown in Fig. 4a) correspond to S ¼
1=3, S ¼ 2=3, and S ¼ 1, respectively. While designing
fuzzy rules one by one, we ﬁrst calculate g by
g ¼ W1  S1 þ W2  S2 þ W3  S3;
(9)
where g ranges in [0,1], and it is a numerical representation
of the consequent. According to the calculated g value, we
can determine the consequent by
Grade ¼
Worst
0  g < 0:2
Bad
0:2  g < 0:4
Medium
0:4  g < 0:6
Good
0:6  g < 0:8
Excellent
0:8  g  1
8
>
>
>
>
<
>
>
>
>
:
(10)
In this way, a fuzzy rule table can be deﬁned. The
Mamdani’s Min-Max fuzzy inference method is utilized to
derive fuzzy outputs. In this method, the fuzzy operator ﬁrst
takes the minimum value among antecedent items in each
activated rule as the weight of the consequent item. Then, as
multiple activated rules may have the same consequence, we
select the maximum value of the consequence as the ﬁnal
output membership when combining these rules.
(3) Defuzziﬁcation. The process of producing a numerical
output based on inference results and predeﬁned output
membership functions is called “defuzziﬁcation”. The Center
of Gravity method is employed to defuzzify the fuzzy output,
as it equips smooth output control and is widely used in
practice. We set the crisp output obtained through defuzziﬁ-
cation as an entry in the newly generated routing policy.
In this paper, we propose three alternate routing policies
by the fuzzy logic method as above: High Reachability First
(HRF), Low Delay First (LDF), and Load Balancing First
(LBF). Details of the proposed policies are as follows.
HRF. Intuitively, the one with the highest predictive
packet delivery rate among all candidate roads is preferred,
as it has the greatest probability of forwarding packets to
the destination. However, high reachability may always be
accompanied by long end-to-end delay and excessive band-
width consumption, which are caused by following the sub-
optimal path selection in distance and frequent reschedul-
ing. Thus, we deﬁne HRF as the combination of three met-
rics with weights of fPDR : 0:5; AD : 0:25; RC : 0:25g.
LDF. The main purpose of LDF is to provide stable and
efﬁcient service. Shorter delays will bring about better per-
formance on time-constraint services. Moreover, consider-
ing the carry-and-forward strategy, LDF can save sufﬁcient
time for rescheduling once the last transmission fails. Nev-
ertheless, blindly pursuing a short delay may lower the
packet reachability. Considering these factors, LDF is
deﬁned as fAD : 0:5; HC : 0:25; PDR : 0:25g.
LBF. Considering the constraints of bandwidth and com-
puting capacity, a large number of packets ﬂowing into a
junction or road must result in data congestion, and corre-
spondingly degrade the service quality. In the high-level
load network, LBF is treated as a viable solution to ensure
global load balance as well as providing stable data trans-
mission. By taking overhead into consideration, the LBF can
evaluate the real-time road load. Moreover, a low hop count
and short delay also have the advantage of reducing the
number of detection messages during data transmission.
Thus, LBF is deﬁned as fRC : 0:5; HC : 0:25; AD : 0:25g.
As a result, together with the weight-based fusion method,
we can obtain four policies for certain service requirements,
i.e., BP, HRF, LDF, and LBF, denoted by G ¼ fGbas; GHRF;
GLDF; GLBFg. All these policies are maintained by the control-
ler and intelligently deployed to the physical vehicular net-
works, according to the method mentioned in the next section.
4.3
Application in Physical Side of IDT-SDVN
In this section, we present the way of applying generated
policies in the physical side of IDT-SDVN, which aims to
optimize policy deployment and provide valid route plan-
ning. The policy application mechanism in ELITE consists of
three essential parts. (i) A routing policy set G which is used
to calculate road paths. (ii) A state-action table that is estab-
lished to select and deploy the optimal policy in G to the
physical network. (iii) A road-based routing strategy that is
responsible for determining relay nodes hop-by-hop along
road paths. In what follows, we ﬁrst discuss how to intelli-
gently select and deploy the optimal one among all policies
to the physical network. Then, we investigate the road-based
hierarchical routing strategy. Finally, adaptive refreshing of
the policy deployment mechanism is presented in detail.
4.3.1
State-Action Table-Based Policy Deployment
The policy deployment mechanism is implemented based
on a state-action table. It helps the controller to provide the
ZHAO ET AL.: ELITE: AN INTELLIGENT DIGITAL TWIN-BASED HIERARCHICAL ROUTING SCHEME FOR SOFTWARIZED VEHICULAR...
5239
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


optimal policy selection according to the real-time network
load. As presented at the top of Fig. 5a, a value in the state-
action table is deﬁned as Pðstate; actionÞ representing the
expected rewards of taking action from state. The state
space is determined on the basis of the service requirement
type and the network load, and the action space consists of
three policies GHRF, GLDF, and GLBF. In this paper, there
are four types of requirements, including security (accident
forewarning, reverse overtaking warning, etc.), efﬁciency
(speed guide, congestion alert, etc.), information services
(differential data sharing, ﬂoating car data collection, etc.),
and entertainment (multimedia equipment interconnection,
etc.). There are also three network load divisions, including
[0,0.3), [0.3,0.7], and (0.7,1.0]. Thereby, the size of the state
space is 43.
Fig. 5a illustrates
the
whole
procedure
of
policy
deployment in the IDT-SDVN controller. Once the cen-
tral controller receives a routing request from vehicles, it
ﬁrst determines the road path Lbas for this request based
on Gbas, as shown in steps (1) and (2), and then calcu-
lates the road load by
loadbas ¼ min
Lbas
avg
Bw ; 1
 
!
;
(11)
where Lbas
avg is the average buffer usage, formulated by Lbas
avg ¼
Lbas
sumnvbas. nvbas and Lbas
sum separately indicate the number of
vehicles and the total occupied buffer length of all vehicles
on the path Lbas. Bw is the channel bandwidth. Step (3)
determines the current state based on the requirement type
and the calculated path load. Then, it is easy to obtain the
most suitable policy for application by querying the state-
action table. As demonstrated in step (4), we assume that
the current state is S1; then, GLDF is selected because it has
the maximum value. After that, the controller calculates a
junction sequence LLDF via GLDF and sends it to the
requester, as presented in steps (5)-(7).
4.3.2
Road-Based Hierarchical Routing Strategy
The proposed road-based hierarchical routing strategy is a
combination of a junction selection strategy in the controller
and a relay vehicle selection strategy in distributed vehicu-
lar networks.
(1) Junction selection. Here we introduce how to utilize the
deployed policy Gop 2 G to calculate a junction sequence
Lsd, thereby determining the road path from the source
junction Js to the target junction Jd. In Lsd, each item Jc is
the best choice of its previous item Jp, obtained by
c ¼ max
8Jn2Np Gopðp; d; nÞ;
(12)
where c, p, d, and n are the IDs of Jc, Jp, Jd, and Jn, respec-
tively. After the computation, Lsd is sent to the routing
requester in the form of a reply message.
(2) Relay vehicle selection. Once receiving the reply mes-
sage sent from the controller, the requester inserts the
assigned road path into the header of packets, and all packet
receivers select the next forwarder along this path based on
the road-based greedy routing strategy. In this case, packets
are delivered hop-by-hop along the path until achieving the
destination vehicle.
We deﬁne Vc as the current vehicle, which is located
within the coverage of the current junction Jc. Here, Vd is
the destination vehicle in the target junction Jd, and Jn is
the next junction of Jc recorded in the junction sequence L.
According to the designed relay vehicle selection strategy,
there are two cases we need to consider when selecting the
relay vehicle on the road.
Case 1, meeting the greedy condition: If there are more
than one Vc’s neighbor vehicles located closer to Jn/Vd, the
current vehicle Vc will select the neighbor that is the closest
to Jn/Vd.
Case 2, violating the greedy condition: If a void appears,
that is, there is no Vc’s neighbor vehicle located nearer to
Jn/Vd, Vc will select the neighbor that is nearest to the cur-
rent junction Jc. This is because data packets inside junc-
tions are given more forwarding opportunities from vehicle
aggregation.
4.3.3
State-Action Table Maintenance
A stable state-action table is a key foundation to provide
efﬁcient and accurate policy deployment. The iterations for
the table are performed upon reception of report messages.
As shown in Fig. 5b, in VNs, the packet receiver or failure
node reports routing results to the central controller after
once packet delivery (step (1)). Then, the controller updates
the corresponding item in the state-action table according to
the entire transmission path (step (2)) and path information
(step (3)). One-step update of each ðstate; actionÞ pair is
deﬁned by
Pðstate; actionÞþ ¼ R0ðstate; actionÞ:
(13)
Fig. 5. (a) State-action table aided routing policy deployment and road path planning. (b) The structure of state-action table maintenance.
5240
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


We deﬁne reward R0 in light of the routing performance
of the deployed policy (step (4)). The four metrics intro-
duced in Section 4.1.1 are taken for the evaluation of the pol-
icy deployment mechanism. In this case, we formulate the
reward function as
R0 ¼ fðPRR; AD; HC; RCÞ
¼ a  gðADsdÞ þ b  qðHCsdÞ þ g  lðRCsdÞ;
(14)
where
g ADsd
ð
Þ ¼
X
Jc2Lsd
RAD c; d; xc
ð
Þ=nsd
(15)
q HCsd
ð
Þ ¼
X
Jc2Lsd
RHC c; d; xc
ð
Þ=nsd
(16)
l RCsd
ð
Þ ¼
X
Ja2Lsd
RRC c; d; xc
ð
Þ=nsd
(17)
denote the average delay-related, hop count-related, and
routing cost-related characteristics of path Lsd, respectively.
Jc is a junction on Lsd, and xc indicates the next junction of
Jc. nsd is the number of road segment contained in Lsd. Note
that Lsd is calculated based on the deployed policy action.
Details of the variables are presented in Section 4.1.2 (3). a,
b, and g indicate the weights whose crisp values are deter-
mined by action. For illustration, LDF is deﬁned by fAD :
0:5; HC : 0:25; PDR : 0:25g in the fuzzy fusion process (dis-
cussed at the end of Section 4.2). Thus, three parameters are
a ¼ 0:5; b ¼ 0:25; g ¼ 0. After the controller receives a path
that is determined under state S1 and policy GLDF, it
updates item ðS1; GLDFÞ in the state-action table by
R0
LDF ¼ 0:25  ADsa þ 0:25  HCsa
(18)
PðS1; GLDFÞ ¼ PðS1; GLDFÞ þ R0
LDF
(19)
5
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
This section is devoted to the performance evaluation of our
proposed intELligent dIgital Twin hiErarchical (ELITE) rout-
ing. First, we introduce the simulation environment, includ-
ing basic parameter settings, evaluation metrics, varying
scenarios, and representative schemes for comparison. Sec-
ond, experimental simulations are conducted based on these
settings for performance evaluation.
5.1
Simulation Environment
5.1.1
Basic Settings
We downloaded the simulation map from OpenStreetMap
and generated trafﬁc ﬂows by Simulation of Urban Mobility
(SUMO). The map is a real urban scenario in Shandong
province, China of an area of 1.5 km x 1.5 km with 12 junc-
tions and 26 roads. Accordingly, in our simulations, the
routing table maintained by the IDT-SDVN controller con-
tains a rough number of 12 x 4 x 11 entries. There are 50 to
250 vehicles per kilometer road and all vehicles have ran-
dom origins and destinations. The simulation is conducted
strictly following the IEEE 802.11p standard. While routing,
the number of messages generated per vehicle varies from 1
to 5 packets per second. In the policy application phase, we
initialize the state-action table randomly, as shown in
Table 2. More simulation environment parameters can be
found in Table 3. The source code of our simulation is avail-
able online at the link: https://github.com/NetworkCom-
munication/ELITE-zg.
5.1.2
Evaluation Metrics and Scenarios
We introduce the following performance metrics to evaluate
the simulation results.
(1) Packet delivery ratio (PDR) and (2) average delay (AD)
are two key metrics that can directly reﬂect network stabil-
ity and communication quality in VNs. Further details on
these two metrics are described in Section 4.1.1.
(3) Path length (PL) indicates the packet transmission dis-
tance from generators (source) to receivers (destination),
calculated by the sum of the air-line distance between every
two adjacent relays.
(4) Routing overhead (RO) is deﬁned as the average num-
ber of routing control messages generated by relay vehicles
for constructing a routing path. The routing control mes-
sages include beacons for neighbor detection and light-
weight packets for routing requests, path discovery, and
essential information reports.
(5) Control overhead (CO) is expressed as the average
number of network control messages generated per second
for maintaining routing tables in case of no data routing.
The network control messages include vehicle beacons and
vehicular information report messages, and especially in
ELITE, the virtual packets for policy training in DTNs are
also considered. Generally, generated network control mes-
sages allow basic information sharing between vehicles and
RSUs and beneﬁt to online routing model updating, but can
cause abundant computation and bandwidth resource con-
sumption. In this paper, CO acts as a vital performance
TABLE 2
Initialization of the State-Action Table
Message type
Load
Value
GHRF
GLDF
GLBF
Security
0-1.0
1
0
0
Efﬁciency
0-1.0
1
1
0
Information service
0-0.3
1
0
0
0.3-1.0
0
0
1
Entertainment
0-1.0
0
0
1
TABLE 3
Simulation Parameters
Parameter
Value
Network size
1500m1500 m
Number of junctions
12
Number of vehicles
350, 700, 1050, 1400, 1750
S-D distance
0-375 m, -750 m, -1125 m, -1500 m
Average speed
023 m/s
Communication range
300 m
Generation rate
15 packets/second
Beacon interval
1 s
Data packet size
1024 Bytes for data packets,
256 Bytes for control packets
MAC protocol
IEEE 802.11p
ZHAO ET AL.: ELITE: AN INTELLIGENT DIGITAL TWIN-BASED HIERARCHICAL ROUTING SCHEME FOR SOFTWARIZED VEHICULAR...
5241
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


metric to evaluate the essential resource consumption for
realizing schemes/policies in both virtual and physical
sides of IDT-SDVNs.
To comprehensively evaluate the performance of ELITE,
extensive experimental simulations are performed under
three scenarios with different parameter constraints.
(1) Number of vehicles. To demonstrate the impact of dif-
ferent vehicle densities on ELITE, we set up ﬁve groups of
experiments with a different number of on-road vehicles
from 350 to 1750, as presented in Table 3.
(2) Average distance from Sources to Destinations (S-D dis-
tance). To evaluate the performance of ELITE in both short-
distance and long-distance data transmission, in simula-
tions, the distance between each pair of source and destina-
tion is uniformly distributed in (0 m-375 m), (375 m-750 m),
(750 m-1125 m), and (1125 m-1500 m).
(3) Number of packets. By dynamically changing the packet
generation rate, ELITE is evaluated under various network
load situations. With 1050 vehicles on the map, we set the
total number of generated packets varying from 1000 to
5000 per second and carry out ﬁve groups of simulation
experiments accordingly.
5.1.3
Schemes for Comparison
We compare our proposed ELITE scheme with three differ-
ent algorithms, Q-learning-based Cognitive Routing (QCR)
[9], Intersection-based V2X routing via Q-learning (IV2XQ)
[14], and Intersection Gateway and Connectivity based
Routing (IGCR) [41]. We also consider two scenarios that
ELITE with the application of RSU and QCR with the appli-
cation of DT to present a more comprehensive comparison
and evaluation.
(1) QCR is an intelligent routing scheme switching
scheme in Software-Deﬁned Cognitive Network for IoV, in
which the Q-learning method is utilized to learn the optimal
strategy in varying trafﬁc scenarios. It enabled adaptive
strategy switching between Greedy Perimeter Stateless
Routing (GPSR) and Ad hoc On-Demand Distance Vector
Routing (AODV) according to the sensed network status.
(2) IV2XQ is a hierarchical routing scheme in road-based
vehicular networks. It consists of two parts: a multidimen-
sional Q-table that is established based on historical trafﬁc
ﬂow and implemented to select road paths, and an
improved greedy strategy to select relay vehicles.
(3) IGCR is a distributed routing scheme of VANETs.
During routing, trafﬁc-aware routing metrics such as node
mobility and trafﬁc density are considered for route discov-
ery with high connectivity, while node position, velocity,
and direction are used to select relay nodes.
(4) In ELITE-RSU, RSUs are considered and responsible
for data transmission at junctions. When the packet sender
reaches a junction, it will forward packets to the nearby
RSU. This RSU selects one vehicle which is the geographi-
cally closest to the next target junction or destination vehicle
among its connected vehicles as the next relay node.
(5) In QCR-DT, the Q-table training process is online and
executed in the DTN, in which the DTN has the same net-
work setup as the physical network. During real data rout-
ing, decisions are made entirely based on the Q-table rather
than the epsilon-greedy policy.
5.2
Performance Comparison Among Single-Target
Policies and Generated Policies
In this section, we show a comprehensive comparison
among single-target policies in Q and generated policies in
G in terms of PDR, AD, PL, and RO in Figs. 6a, 6b, 6c, and 6
(d). Policies are evaluated under the scenario 1050 vehicles
on the map with the S-D distance and packets generation
rate evenly ranging in 01500 m and 15 packet/second,
respectively.
As shown in Fig. 6a, the PDR of utilizing QPDR and GHRF
performs better than other policies. This is mainly because,
in these policies, road paths with a high probability of suc-
cessful packet delivery have been highlighted during the
exploration and experience accumulation process in DTNs.
Different from this, rewards designed for training QAD,
QHC, and QRC only consider average end-to-end delay, hop
count, and cost on a road, respectively. Similarly in Figs. 6b,
6c, and 6(d), packet delivery abilities of roads in terms of
different metrics are well distinguished by Q and G. It is
worth illustrating that although routing based on G some-
times performs worse than Q in certain metrics, it shows
better comprehensive performance as policies in G tend to
ﬁnd a trade-off among multiple metrics for satisfying
diverse service requirements. QRC presents the longest
delay and routing path due to the selection of geographi-
cally non-optimal roads in path scheduling. However, it can
reduce the number of generated control messages during
routing signiﬁcantly. In practice, GLBF is always used in
scenarios with high network load such as multimedia data
transmission to ensure the load balancing and guarantee
service quality.
As discussed above, it is obvious that implementing DT
in VNs is feasible and effective. This point can be demon-
strated in two aspects. First, compared with conventional
online model learning mechanisms, policy learning in
DTNs alleviates the impact of network performance caused
by frequent exploration processes in the physical world sig-
niﬁcantly (about 20% packet loss as shown in Fig. 6a).
Fig. 6. Performance comparison among policies in Q and G in terms of (a) PDR, (b) AD, (c) PL, and (d) RO.
5242
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


Policies that adapt to current network situations can be
learned by DTN-agent pairs and used in physical networks
for routing discovery. Second, single-target policies are scal-
able and easy to train. By expanding G, generated policy set
shows great potential in satisfying the diverse changing sce-
narios and temporal service requirements. More compre-
hensive evaluations of ELITE and further veriﬁcation are
presented in the next section.
5.3
Simulation Performance Evaluation for ELITE
5.3.1
Evaluation of PDR
(1) Varying number of vehicles. Fig. 7a illustrates the packet
delivery ratio for varying vehicle densities with the average S-
D distance uniformly ranging from 0 m to 1500 m. This con-
straint is also applied in the evaluations of other metrics. As
shown, with an increasing number of vehicles, the PDR of
all the six schemes shows an upward trend. This tendency
occurs because, in low-density scenarios, packets are more
likely to be trapped in dead zones that have no valid next-hop
candidates, while in high-density scenarios, this dilemma is
greatly improved. In our proposed ELITE, road paths have
been extensively evaluated in parallel digital twin networks
before being deployed. Thus, it shows acceptable perfor-
mance in PDR and keeps an increasing trend, especially
when the number of vehicles exceeds 1400, the PDR is
greater than 90%. As shown, IV2XQ has the best perfor-
mance when the number of vehicles is less than 1400, which
mainly beneﬁts from it utilizing RSUs at junctions to forward
packets; therefore, even at junctions with sparse vehicle dis-
tribution, packets can also be successfully transmitted. By
applying RSUs at junctions, ELITE-RSU can increase the
PDR under all vehicle densities signiﬁcantly. Packets reach-
ing junctions can be directly forwarded to relays located at
the next intermediate road. Compared with QCR, QCR-DT
achieves about 10% performance improvement as its routing
policy selection strategy has been pre-veriﬁed in DTNs
before applying in physical networks.
(2) Varying S-D distance. Fig. 7b shows the changes of
packet delivery ratio under varying S-D distances with the
number of vehicles in the network being 1500. As the trans-
mission distance expands, the PDR of all schemes decreases,
because long transmission needs frequent relay node
switches, which may accumulate the risks of packet loss.
Similar to the scenes in varying vehicle densities, when the
S-D distance exceeds a certain threshold (750 m), the perfor-
mance of our proposed ELITE in PDR is worse than that of
IV2XQ. This can be explained in two aspects: First, ELITE
pays attention to the whole network performance and aims
to provide routing support for diversiﬁed requirements
rather than a certain metric. Second, IV2XQ utilizes RSUs to
forward packets at junctions, and this process can substan-
tially improve the ﬁnal packet delivery ratio. In ELITE-RSU,
RSUs at junctions empower the routing paths with stronger
connectivity, thereby optimizing the routing performance of
ELITE in terms of PDR. Moreover, this improvement
expands with S-D distance as the curves shown in Fig. 7b.
All schemes completely or partially implement greedy selec-
tion. However, while making relay selection decisions,
ELITE and IV2XQ pre-calculate the junction sequence that
has the optimal network condition, while QCR and IGCR
entirely relies on topological information. Thus, both ELITE
Fig. 7. Packet delivery ratio under (a) various number of vehicles, (b) various S-D distance, and (c) various number of packets. Average end-to-end
delay under (d) various number of vehicles, (e) various S-D distance, and (f) various number of packets. Path length under (g) various number of
vehicles and (h) various S-D distance. Routing overhead under (i) various number of vehicles and (j) various S-D distance. (k) Control overhead under
various number of vehicles.
ZHAO ET AL.: ELITE: AN INTELLIGENT DIGITAL TWIN-BASED HIERARCHICAL ROUTING SCHEME FOR SOFTWARIZED VEHICULAR...
5243
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


and IV2XQ show better performance in PDR than QCR and
IGCR.
(3) Varying number of packets. Fig. 7c shows the packet
delivery ratio versus network load. As the number of gener-
ated packets increases, the PDR values of all schemes
decreases. This result occurs because of the increasing risk
of network congestion. Under all network load conditions,
the proposed ELITE and ELITE-RSU perform better than
others. This can be explained from two perspectives. (i)
Routing along the paths calculated based on the policy QRC
generates fewer routing control messages. (ii) ELITE and
ELITE-RSU also implement an intelligent policy application
mechanism to switch policies adaptively according to real-
time network load and message type. In this way, alterna-
tive routing paths are considered for certain data transmis-
sions to keep the global load balance. Beneﬁted from pre-
veriﬁcation, QCR-DT performs better than QCR. However,
due to the performance bottleneck of GPSR and AODV, this
improvement is weakened in the case of more than 3000
packets in the network.
5.3.2
Evaluation of AD
(1) Varying number of vehicles. Fig. 7d shows the effect of
vehicle density on the average end-to-end delay. For all
schemes, the AD increases with the vehicle density because
during the next-hop relay selection process, packet receivers
must deal with more one-hop information, thereby increas-
ing the calculation delay. Compared with IV2XQ, QCR, and
IGCR, ELITE achieves the best performance in AD under all
vehicle densities for the following reasons. First, before pol-
icy deployment, a certain policy has been generated with
the target of low delay. Second, during the path planning
process, the controller maintains a routing table set for all
times and is enabled to calculate road paths by only query-
ing those tables. Third, during the routing process, only
position information is used to select the next-hop vehicle.
As a result, the AD is considerably reduced. Among all
comparisons, QCR has the longest delay, especially when
the number of vehicles increases beyond 1050, the average
delay increases sharply, as there exists long time consump-
tion caused by frequent plane topology computation (in
GPSR) and route discovery (in AODV and IGCR). It is
worth discussing that the AD of ELITE-RSU is nearly dou-
ble of ELITE and similar to IV2XQ. This is mainly because a
large number of packets sent to the same RSU may lead to
temporary data congestion and further long delay. More-
over, in scenarios with high vehicular density, packets gen-
erally can leave a junction within one or two hops, thereby
leading to a shorter transmission delay compared with for-
warding packets by RSUs.
(2) Varying S-D distance. The performance comparison for
evaluating the average end-to-end delay over the S-D distance
is shown in Fig. 7e. Results express that the AD of all schemes
grows as the S-D distance gets longer. The main reason is that
a long S-D distance leads to more hops, and further increases
computation time, transmission time, and sometimes queue
time. Compared with IV2VQ, QCR, and IGCR, ELITE main-
tains a shorter delay at different transmission distances. The
key reason is that ELITE directly targets routing metrics,
including AD, while training models. Nevertheless, IV2XQ,
QCR, and IGCR only consider some basic road network-
related attributes, such as vehicle density and speed. In
ELITE, beneﬁted from the hierarchical routing structure, the
packet holder far from its destination can perceive the net-
work status beyond one hop to some extent, rather than
select relays with limited network information.
(3) Varying number of packets. Fig. 7f shows the average end-
to-end delay of these schemes as the network load situation
varies. As the number of packets ﬂowing in the network
increases, the AD climbs up because the increment in the risk
of data congestion cause longer queuing time during hop-by-
hop transmission. Compared with other routing methods
without the consideration of routing cost, the proposed ELITE
and ELITE-RSU achieve a low AD beneﬁted by the load bal-
ancing mechanism. The routing of IGCR is restricted by roads
but pays more attention to common features such as vehicular
density. This must cause severe data congestion on certain
roads and further long delay or even packet loss.
5.3.3
Evaluation of PL
(1) Varying number of vehicles. Fig. 7g shows the relationships
between the average routing path length and the number of
vehicles. The PL of all schemes decreases as the number of
vehicles increases. In fact, the PL mainly depends on the S-
D distance, hop count, and road path length (in road-based
routing). On the one hand, once position-based greedy rout-
ing strategies are used, the one-hop transmission distance
most likely increases with the number of neighbor vehicles
around packet holders, thereby decreasing the hop count
from sources to destinations. On the other hand, in ELITE,
the increment of vehicle density at junctions decreases
search times caused by Case 2 in Section 4.3.2 (2), therefore
making the next junction easier to reach with a few hops. In
IV2XQ and ELITE-RSU, forwarding packets by RSUs at
junctions markedly increases the hop count. Moreover, the
application of alternative paths in IV2XQ also leads to a
long road path. The PL of QCR and QCR-DT is shorter than
others and remains relatively low. The main reason is that
packet transmission is position-based rather than con-
strained by tortuous road paths. Conversely, IGCR per-
forms worst among RSU-free schemes due to the less
consideration of hop count-related features such as inter-
vehicle distance while selecting relay vehicles.
(2) Varying S-D distance. Fig. 7h analyzes how the S-D dis-
tance impacts the average routing path length. As shown,
there are several observations to be explained. (i) The PL
becomes longer for all schemes as the S-D distance increases.
(ii) When the S-D distance exceeds 750, IV2XQ, IGCR, ELITE,
and ELITE-RSU have a longer PL compared with QCR and
QCR-DT, as they must forward packets along roads, while
QCR and QCR-DT completely depend on the position infor-
mation for packet delivery. (iii) Nevertheless, ELITE allevi-
ates this restriction because of the consideration of hop count
while generating junction selection policies. Therefore, the
average path length of ELITE is shorter than that of the com-
pared road-based routing schemes.
5.3.4
Evaluation of RO
(1) Varying number of vehicles. Fig. 7i demonstrates the results
of evaluating the routing overhead for these policies/schemes
5244
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


under varying numbers of vehicles. As the number of vehicles
increases, the RO of IV2XQ and QCR increases rapidly, while
that of ELITE remains at a relatively low level for the follow-
ing reasons. First, unlik IV2XQ, QCR, and IGCR, ELITE takes
the number of generated control messages as a crucial metric
while training policies. This means that once congestion
occurs, the controller can plan road paths based on GLBF for
low-priority messages to balance the global overhead. In
addition, in IV2XQ, QCR, and IGCR, vehicles need to fre-
quently exchange information messages with their neighbors
or RSUs for route discovery while routing. These processes
result in high communication overhead.
(2) Varying S-D distance. Fig. 7j shows the RO of the three
routing schemes under different S-D distances. It is obvious
that for all comparisons, the RO increases with increasing S-D
distance. This is mainly because the longer paths there are to
be established, the more links there are to be maintained,
resulting in an increase in the number of routing control mes-
sages for exchanging essential information between adjacent
vehicles/RSUs. Compared with IV2XQ, QCR, and IGCR, the
proposed ELITE achieves better performance in RO since it
trains a load control policy to balance the global overhead.
IV2XQ and QCR show similar performance in terms of RO.
Although IV2XQ utilizes alternative routing paths for load
balancing, it needs additional information exchanges between
RSUs and their neighboring vehicles at junctions. Therefore, it
leads to a rise in the number of routing control messages. In
QCR, vehicles should periodically broadcast hello messages
to maintain the neighbor list and generate massive informa-
tion messages to discover routes in some cases. In IGCR,
vehicles at junctions should interact with gateway ﬁxed nodes
for routing discovery frequently, thereby leading to extra RO.
Due to the increasing number of junctions contained in the
routing path, the curve of IGCR rises with the S-D distance
dramatically.
5.3.5
Evaluation of CO
Fig. 7k shows the control overhead against the increase in the
number of vehicles. The CO increases for all schemes with the
vehicle density increasing, since both the controller/server
and vehicles have more tasks to execute due to the growth of
the number of communication requests and network control
messages. As shown, the CO of IV2XQ, QCR, and IGCR is
similar and lower than that of our proposed ELITE. The
results can be explained in two aspects. First, vehicles under
both these schemes should periodically broadcast beacons
and send location-report messages to base stations or RSUs.
Second, in ELITE, the central controller develops a group of
DTNS for single-target policy learning, and this learning pro-
cess is continuous and parallel. That means a large number of
virtual communication processes are executed by each agent-
DTN pair to output a satisfactory routing policy. This situa-
tion also occurs in QCR-DT. As the settings in Table 2, about
1080 virtual messages are generated in each DTN per sec-
ond. Therefore, the CO of ELITE, ELITE-RSU, and QCR-DT
climbs up dramatically as the vehicle density increases, and
then keeps at a high level. Nevertheless, it is essential to
explain that even the utilization of DT accompanied by exten-
sive resource cost, the performance of ELITE in terms of
PDR, AD, PL, and RO have gained great improvement.
Therefore, the extra resource consumption in the policy gen-
eration process in ELITE is acceptable.
6
CONCLUSION
This paper presents the ELITE routing scheme in IDT-
SDVN that aims to provide a road-based hierarchical rout-
ing path planning method for frequent topological changes
and complex service requests in vehicular networks. First, a
group of DTN-agent pairs is deployed in the IDT-SDVN
controller to learn single-target policies. Second, fuzzy infer-
ence is responsible for combining the learned results into
new policies. Then, we investigate an adaptive policy
deployment mechanism to select the most suitable policy
according to service requirements and trafﬁc situations.
Finally, during transmission, a road path is planned based
on the deployed policy, and packets are greedily forwarded
along the path hop-by-hop.
The principal theoretical implication of this study is that
IDT-SDVN has the advantages of realizing intelligent genera-
tion and adaptive iteration of routing policies. Simulation
results show that in multi-hop data transmission in vehicular
networks,
our
proposed
scheme
achieves
considerable
improvement in the packet delivery ratio, end-to-end delay,
and routing path length while maintaining network load
in an appropriate range compared with existing routing
schemes. For the future, by optimizing the IDT-SDVN struc-
ture in terms of resource savings, more virtual network spaces
can be developed in the central controller, ensuring faster
learning speed, encompassing more routing metrics, and cov-
ering more types of services. In addition, developing trafﬁc
prediction technologies and thereby establishing future topol-
ogy-based DTNs is also a crucial issue to expand the functions
of IDT-SDVN.
REFERENCES
[1]
G. Karagiannis et al., “Vehicular networking: A survey and tutorial
on requirements, architectures, challenges, standards and sol-
utions,” IEEE Commun. Surv. Tut., vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 584–616,
Oct.–Dec. 2011.
[2]
H. H. Jeong, Y. C. Shen, J. P. Jeong, and T. T. Oh, “A comprehen-
sive survey on vehicular networking for safe and efﬁcient driving
in smart transportation: A focus on systems, protocols, and
applications,” Veh. Commun., vol. 31, 2021, Art. no. 100349.
[3]
B. Chaurasia, W. Manjoro, and M. Dhakar, “Trafﬁc congestion
identiﬁcation and reduction,” Wireless Pers. Commun., vol. 114,
pp. 1267–1286, Sep. 2020.
[4]
A. Hawbani et al., “Zone probabilistic routing for wireless sensor
networks,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 728–741,
Mar. 2019.
[5]
H. I. Abbasi, R. C. Voicu, J. A. Copeland, and Y. Chang, “Towards
fast and reliable multihop routing in vanets,” IEEE Trans. Mobile
Comput., vol. 19, no. 10, pp. 2461–2474, Oct. 2020.
[6]
M. Sepulcre and J. Gozalvez, “Heterogeneous V2V communica-
tions in multi-link and multi-rat vehicular networks,” IEEE Trans.
Mobile Comput., vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 162–173, Jan. 2021.
[7]
L. Zhao, J. Li, A. Al-Dubai, A. Y. Zomaya, G. Min, and A. Haw-
bani, “Routing schemes in software-deﬁned vehicular networks:
Design, open issues and challenges,” IEEE Intell. Transp. Syst.
Mag., vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 217–226, Winter 2021.
[8]
L. Zhao, T. Zheng, M. Lin, A. Hawbani, J. Shang, and C. Fan,
“SPIDER: A social computing inspired predictive routing scheme
for softwarized vehicular networks,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp.
Syst., early access, Oct. 29, 2021, doi: 10.1109/TITS.2021.3122438.
[9]
C. Wang, L. Zhang, Z. Li, and C. Jiang, “SDCoR: Software deﬁned
cognitive routing for Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE Internet Things J.,
vol. 5, no. 5, pp. 3513–3520, Oct. 2018.
ZHAO ET AL.: ELITE: AN INTELLIGENT DIGITAL TWIN-BASED HIERARCHICAL ROUTING SCHEME FOR SOFTWARIZED VEHICULAR...
5245
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


[10] J. Wang, K. Liu, K. Xiao, X. Wang, Q. Han, and V. C. S. Lee,
“Delay-constrained routing via heterogeneous vehicular commu-
nications in software deﬁned busnet,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol.,
vol. 68, no. 6, pp. 5957–5970, Jun. 2019.
[11] X. Zhang, X. Cao, L. Yan, and D. K. Sung, “A street-centric opportu-
nistic routing protocol based on link correlation for urban
VANETs,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 15, no. 7, pp. 1586–1599,
Jul. 2016.
[12] Y. R. B. Al-Mayouf et al., “Real-time intersection-based segment
aware routing algorithm for urban vehicular networks,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 2125–2141, Jul. 2018.
[13] G. Sun, Y. Zhang, H. Yu, X. Du, and M. Guizani, “Intersection fog-
based distributed routing for V2V communication in urban vehic-
ular ad hoc networks,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 21,
no. 6, pp. 2409–2426, Jun. 2020.
[14] L. Luo, L. Sheng, H. Yu, and G. Sun, “Intersection-based V2X rout-
ing via reinforcement learning in vehicular ad hoc networks,”
IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., early access, Feb. 02, 2021,
doi: 10.1109/TITS.2021.3053958.
[15] M. Camelo, M. Claeys, and S. Latre, “Parallel reinforcement learning
with minimal communication overhead for IoT environments,”
IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 1387–1400, Feb. 2020.
[16] Y. Wu, K. Zhang, and Y. Zhang, “Digital twin networks: A survey,”
IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 18, pp. 13 789–13804, Sep. 2021.
[17] Z. Wang et al., “A digital twin paradigm: Vehicle-to-cloud based
advanced driver assistance systems,” in Proc. IEEE 91st Veh. Tech-
nol. Conf., 2020, pp. 1–6.
[18] P. Wang, N. Xu, W. Sun, G. Wang, and Y. Zhang, “Distributed
incentives and digital twin for resource allocation in air-assisted
Internet of Vehicles,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun. Netw. Conf.,
2021, pp. 1–6.
[19] K. Zhang, J. Cao, S. Maharjan, and Y. Zhang, “Digital twin
empowered content caching in social-aware vehicular edge
networks,” IEEE Trans. Computat. Social Syst., vol. 9, no. 1,
pp. 239–251, Feb. 2022.
[20] X. Xu et al., “Service ofﬂoading with deep Q-network for digital
twinning empowered Internet of Vehicles in edge computing,”
IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 1414–1423, Feb. 2020.
[21] K. Zhang, J. Cao, and Y. Zhang, “Adaptive digital twin and multi-
agent deep reinforcement learning for vehicular edge computing and
networks,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 1405–1413,
Feb. 2021.
[22] J. Liu, Y. Dong, Y. Liu, P. Li, S. Liu, and T. Wang, “Prediction
study of the heavy vehicle driving state based on digital twin
model,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Power Electron., Comput. Appl.,
2021, pp. 789–797.
[23] C. Hu et al., “A digital twin-assisted real-time trafﬁc data predic-
tion method for 5G-enabled Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 2811–2819, Apr. 2022.
[24] L. Zhao, G. Han, Z. Li, and L. Shu, “Intelligent digital twin-based
software-deﬁned vehicular networks,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 5,
pp. 178–184, Sep./Oct. 2020.
[25] Y. Gao, Z. Zhang, D. Zhao, Y. Zhang, and T. Luo, “A hierarchical
routing scheme with load balancing in software deﬁned vehicular
ad hoc networks,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 73 774–73 785, 2018.
[26] C. Ghorai, S. Shakhari, and I. Banerjee, “ASPEA-based multimet-
ric routing protocol for intelligent transportation systems,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22, no. 11, pp. 6737–6747, Nov. 2020.
[27] A. Hawbani, E. Torbosh, X. Wang, P. Sincak, L. Zhao, and A. Al-
Dubai, “Fuzzy-based distributed protocol for vehicle-to-vehicle
communication,” IEEE Trans. Fuzzy Syst., vol. 29, no. 3, pp. 612–626,
Mar. 2019.
[28] C. Ghorai, S. Shakhari, and I. Banerjee, “A spea-based multimetric
routing protocol for intelligent transportation systems,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22, no. 11, pp. 6737–6747, Nov. 2021.
[29] X. M. Zhang, L. Yan, K. H. Chen, and D. K. Sung, “Fast, efﬁcient
broadcast schemes based on the prediction of dynamics in vehicu-
lar ad hoc networks,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 21, no. 2,
pp. 531–542, Feb. 2020.
[30] G. Sun, Y. Zhang, D. Liao, H. Yu, X. Du, and M. Guizani, “Bus-tra-
jectory-based street-centric routing for message delivery in urban
vehicular ad hoc networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 67,
no. 8, pp. 7550–7563, Aug. 2018.
[31] K. Z. Ghafoor, L. Kong, D. B. Rawat, E. Hosseini, and A. S. Sadiq,
“Quality of service aware routing protocol in software-deﬁned Inter-
net of Vehicles,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 2817–2828,
Apr. 2019.
[32] K. Mershad, “SURFER: A secure SDN-based routing protocol
for Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 9,
pp. 7407–7422, May 2021.
[33] K. L. K. Sudheera, M. Ma, and P. H. J. Chong, “Link stability based
optimized routing framework for software deﬁned vehicular
networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 3, pp. 2934–2945,
Mar. 2019.
[34] O. Alzamzami and I. Mahgoub, “Fuzzy logic-based geographic
routing for urban vehicular networks using link quality and
achievable throughput estimations,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp.
Syst., vol. 20, no. 6, pp. 2289–2300, Jun. 2019.
[35] Z. Cao, B. N. Silva, M. Diyan, J. Li, and K. Han, “Intersection rout-
ing based on fuzzy multi-factor decision for vanets,” Appl. Sci.,
vol. 10, no. 18, 2020, Art. no. 6613.
[36] F. Li, X. Song, H. Chen, X. Li, and Y. Wang, “Hierarchical routing
for vehicular ad hoc networks via reinforcement learning,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 2, pp. 1852–1865, Feb. 2019.
[37] C. Wu, T. Yoshinaga, Y. Ji, and Y. Zhang, “Computational intelligence
inspired data delivery for vehicle-to-roadside communications,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 67, no. 12, pp. 12038–12048, Dec. 2018.
[38] M. A. Al-Jarrah, A. Al-Dweik, M. Kalil, and S. S. Ikki, “Decision
fusion in distributed cooperative wireless sensor networks,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 797–811, Jan. 2019.
[39] J. Liu, J. Huang, R. Sun, H. Yu, and R. Xiao, “Data fusion for multi-
source sensors using GA-PSO-BP neural network,” IEEE Trans.
Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22, no. 10, pp. 6583–6598, Oct. 2021.
[40] P. Wang, W. Hao, and Y. Jin, “Fine-grained trafﬁc ﬂow prediction
of various vehicle types via fusion of multisource data and deep
learning approaches,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22,
no. 11, pp. 6921–6930, Nov. 2021.
[41] K. N. Qureshi, M. Ahmed, G. Jeon, and F. Piccialli, “An enhanced
multi-hop intersection-based geographical routing protocol for
the internet of connected vehicles network,” IEEE Trans. Intell.
Transp. Syst., vol. 22, no. 6, pp. 3850–3858, Jun. 2021.
Liang Zhao (Member, IEEE) received the PhD
degree from the School of Computing, Edinburgh
Napier University, in 2011. He is currently a profes-
sor with Shenyang Aerospace University, China.
His research interests include ITS, VANET, WMN,
and SDN. He has published more than 120 papers.
He served as the chair of several international con-
ferences and workshops, including 2022 IEEE Big-
DataSE (steering co-chair), 2021 IEEE TrustCom
(program co-chair), 2019 IEEE IUCC (program co-
chair), and 2018-2021 NGDN workshop (founder).
He was the recipient of the best/outstanding paper awards with 2015 IEEE
IUCC, 2020 IEEE ISPA, and 2013 ACM MoMM.
Zhenguo Bi received the BSc degree from She-
nyang Aerospace University. He is currently work-
ing toward the master’s degree with Shenyang
Aerospace
University,
Shenyang,
China.
His
research interests include ITS, VANET, and SDN.
Ammar Hawbani received the BS, MS, and PhD
degrees in computer software and theory from
University of Science and Technology of China, in
2009, 2012, and 2016, respectively. He is cur-
rently an associate professor of networking and
communication algorithms with the School of
Computer Science and Technology, University of
Science and Technology of China. From 2016 to
2019, he worked as postdoctoral researcher with
the School of Computer Science and Technology,
University of Science and Technology of China.
His research interests include IoT, WSNs, WBANs, WMNs, VANETs,
and SDN letters.
5246
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 22, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2023
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


Keping Yu (Member, IEEE) received the ME
and PhD degrees from the Graduate School of
Global Information and Telecommunication Stud-
ies, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan, in 2012
and 2016, respectively. He was a research associ-
ate, junior researcher, and researcher with the
Global Information and Telecommunication Insti-
tute, Waseda University, from 2015 to 2019, 2019
to 2020, and 2020 to 2022, respectively. He is cur-
rently an associate professor with Hosei University
and a visiting scientist with the RIKEN Center for
Advanced Intelligence Project, Japan. He has hosted and participated in
more than ten projects, is involved in many standardization activities orga-
nized by ITU-Tand ICNRG of IRTF, and has contributed to ITU-T Standards
Y.3071 and Supplement 35. He received the IEEE Outstanding Leadership
Award from IEEE BigDataSE 2021, the Best Paper Award from IEEE Con-
sumer Electronics Magazine Award 2022 (ﬁrst Place Winner), IEEE
ICFTIC 2021, ITU Kaleidoscope 2020, the Student Presentation Award
from JSST 2014. He has authored 100+ publications including papers in
prestigious journal/conferences such as the IEEE Wireless Communica-
tions, IEEE Communications Magazine, IEEE Network Magazine, IEEE
Internet of Things Journal, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, IEEE
Transactions on Industrial Informatics, IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology,
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Journal of Biomedical and Health
Informatics, IEEE Transactions on Reliability, IEEE Transactions on Com-
munications, IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management,
IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, IEEE Transac-
tions on Network Science and Engineering, IEEE Transactions on Green
Communications and Networking, IEEE Transactions on Computational
Social Systems, IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine, IEEE Internet of
Things Magazine, ICC, GLOBECOM etc. He is also an associate editor of
IEEE Open Journal of Vehicular Technology, Journal of Intelligent
Manufacturing, Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers. He has been
a guest editor for more than 20 journals such as IEEE Transactions on
Computational Social Systems. He served as general co-chair and public-
ity co-chair of the IEEE VTC2020-Spring 1st EBTSRA workshop, general
co-chair of IEEE ICCC2020 2nd EBTSRA workshop, general co-chair of
IEEE TrustCom2021 3nd EBTSRA workshop, session chair of IEEE
ICCC2020, ITU Kaleidoscope 2016. His research interests include smart
grids, information-centric networking, Internet of Things, artiﬁcial intelli-
gence, blockchain, and information security.
Yan Zhang (Fellow, IEEE) is currently a full profes-
sor with the University of Oslo. He is also an editor
of several IEEE publications, including IEEE Com-
munications
Magazine,
IEEE
Network,
IEEE
Transactions on Green Communications and Net-
working, IEEE Communications Surveys and Tuto-
rials, and the IEEE Internet of Things Journal. His
current research interests include next generation
wireless networks leading to 5G and cyber physical
systems. He is a fellow of IET, an elected member
of Academia Europaea, an elected member of the
Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters (DKNVS), and an
elected member of the Norwegian Academy of Technological Sciences.
Mohsen Guizani (Fellow, IEEE) received the BS
(with distinction), MS, and PhD degrees in electrical
and computer engineering from Syracuse Univer-
sity, Syracuse, New York. He is currently a profes-
sor and the associate provost with Mohamed
Bin
Zayed
University of
Artiﬁcial
Intelligence
(MBZUAI), Abu Dhabi, UAE. Previously, he worked
in different institutions in the USA. His research
interests include applied machine learning and arti-
ﬁcial intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT), intelligent
systems, smart city, and cybersecurity. He was
listed as a clarivate analytics highly cited researcher in computer science,
in 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively. He has won several research awards
including the “2015 IEEE Communications Society Best Survey Paper
Award” as well 4 best paper awards from ICC and Globecom Conferences.
He is the author of ten books and more than 800 publications. He is also
the recipient of the 2017 IEEE Communications Society Wireless Technical
Committee (WTC) Recognition Award, the 2018 AdHoc Technical Commit-
tee Recognition Award, and the 2019 IEEE Communications and Informa-
tion Security Technical Recognition (CISTC) Award.
" For more information on this or any other computing topic,
please visit our Digital Library at www.computer.org/csdl.
ZHAO ET AL.: ELITE: AN INTELLIGENT DIGITAL TWIN-BASED HIERARCHICAL ROUTING SCHEME FOR SOFTWARIZED VEHICULAR...
5247
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Minnesota. Downloaded on September 14,2025 at 04:52:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
